I like small computers the reason I like
small computers is you can just tuck
them behind your monitor or stuff them
in a drawer or just get them out of the
way but this is a mini computer that
wants to be seen it's a mini computer
from our friends at minis Forum that has
a can you see it already there's a
screen on this thing and not just a
screen a touch screen as you can imagine
not really meant to stuff this one in
the drawer I guess uh probably sits okay
yeah there's a stand ah this is making
more sense is it an adjustable stand oh
look at that that's got some
niceo she's stiff it doesn't have screws
so you can't make it stiff again if it
becomes loose but that it's pretty good
to start clip it on there and you can
see Boom the mini form Adam man
x7t I bet the ti stands for titanium
it's a little computer with a 4in
touchcreen on it why I don't
know look at that it's so quaint and
shiny I mean fingerprints wise like look
look at this there's some other stuff
going on here what is that is that a do
look like microphones oh God it's a
computer with a webcam you guys know how
much I liked the last one of those this
one kind of makes sense though cuz you
have to have it front and center for the
the touchcreen so you might as well
stick a webcam on there we've got some
cables in the Box h HMI cable which mini
form pretty much always includes nice
touch we got the little Mickey ears to a
standard
cable and then a cute little power
brick in Chinese okay never mind and
that's it for the Box this is 120 watts
that's a lot of juice on the outside on
the top okay this part of the io is at
least smart if you need an SD card slot
it's basically as convenient as it
possibly could be oh look at that do you
see what's happening here look at this
look it's got a physical blocker dad so
you can actually disable the webcam
which is very nice when it's a webcam
that's physically integrated into the
device power button lots of ventilation
here I mean we got 12 120 W power brick
so I imagine uh it needs it we've got
this guy here we've got that guy there
and some ventilation on the bottom on
this side we've got the DC power in an
HDMI 2.1 Port always nice to see some
manner of USB type A the blue one I
think this is a 5 gig port cuz they list
that there's one 5 gig and two 10 gig
type A's we'll see the rest of those in
a second we've got a USB 2.0 type A
we've got display port 2.0 they don't
list the throughput rate so I'll see if
I can figure that out before the end of
this video two 5 gig ethernet Jacks a
USB 4 and ocul Link is 5 gig making a
comeback this is the first recent
product I've seen that actually is
integrating it again which is great
because
yeah doubl the speed of even 2.5 gig
five times the speed of 1 gig that
oculink Port is great if you want to run
an egpu mini form even actually makes an
oculink dock that you can buy for a
somewhat reasonable price uh but this is
a pcie Gen 4 by4 connection inside of
here it's not Thunderbolt even though
there is this USB 4 which you also could
use for an egpu it's just like a
straight pcie connection which is pretty
nice cuz there's a little bit less
overhead there are the other USB type A
ports I was talking about these are
likely 10 gig and then we've got another
USB 4 combo audio and a reset button
that's pretty much it for
Io that looks great on my desk I wish
the stand had some thought put into like
cable management like if the ports came
out of the bottom and it was a little
bit taller stand that kind of hid them
that would be cool or like hey how about
put the io on the back maybe huh it's
not the worst thing I've ever seen but
it's not the best all right boom
Hey look it's this message from our
sponsor thanks to Asphalt Legends for
sponsoring this video rev up for asphalt
Legends unite bring your progress from
Asphalt 9 and dive into action-packed
racing with over 250 hypercars and
stunning new graphics race through the
thrilling Singapore track and enjoy the
freedom of crossplay on PS5 PS4 Android
iOS PC Nintendo switch Xbox and steam
deck connect with friends in multiplayer
and Co-op modes across all platforms
with special launch rewards and the ES L
finals that games gone on August 25th
there's never been a better time to join
the race check it out in the description
oh wow it's got like stuff on it already
who look at that wow I've got this
wonderful color
appropriate very stealthy cable to plug
into the side of this thing all right
specs wise we've got a core Ultra 9
185h this is a meteor Lake chip with
some AI stuff built in we got 32 gigs of
RAM a 1 tbte Kingston SSD you can also
order this thing as a Bare Bones which I
would encourage you to do because you
can probably get a better deal on the
SSD and RAM yourself we can see the 5
gig ethernet I mentioned earlier and
then also Intel Wi-Fi 7 which should be
pretty fast I don't have a Wi-Fi 7
access point here to try it with um but
we'll we'll do a little speed test in a
second here I've been informed that
there is no software I mean it's reading
stats there's a piece of software on
here called
sccs I am not familiar with it doesn't
seem to launch but I think that might be
the background app that does the like
communication let's see how accurate are
we talking here 42 Dees on the CPU
package says 43 there that's close
enough right oh yeah there's a few
second delay looks like maybe 3 seconds
but it does actually seem to read the
spec somewhat accurately I'm sure it's
just pulling from the sensors through
that piece of software what if we try
like a speed test does it update let's
see oh yeah look at that they say it's a
480p screen so I guess it's 480 x 480
given that it's a square it is a touch
screen so we can adjust our system
volume we can adjust the screen
brightness what does this USB button do
device interface whoa oh look it tells
you it's a map of the ports that's kind
of cute except it says USB 3.2 on all
three of these blue ones very
helpful uh what else we got here does
this display other things mode
adjustment ooh performance mode does
this just change the power profile
and can you even like oh yeah it's
making noise
now it doesn't this is doing something
else it uh slightly adjusts the CPU GPU
balance for the wage what else we got in
here
clock how do I is there not other
screens like swipe how do I do oh oh
look at that wow we got fancy clocks
this is Apple watch now this seem this
seems like what most people would
display on this screen you know like
it's got a clock on the computer it
looks okay it's not going to be the most
customizable thing in the world you
can't like drag and drop stuff but you
can at least change the languages and
slightly adjust where things are I mean
I'm not mad about it it's cool that it's
not just like a display port connection
to your PC and you have to run some like
stupid software in the background
although there is some software in the
background let's try the
webcam I'm sure it's great oh man look
at that that's lovely this is actually
that that's it's pretty good actually
does that not look pretty good it looks
pretty I mean we're at like half Studio
lighting half not very lit it does look
good even in the dark I mean there's
still one light above me but it's pretty
dark in here and it's a little noisier
but for a webcam like seriously all
right boys and girls let's see this go
Burr hey look at that 5 gigabit dude 5
gig is sick if just more things
supported it it would be much better but
pretty freaking sick naturally we should
try the Wi-Fi
too it's a it's an Intel Wi-Fi chipset
it's fast I mean realistically this AP
seems to max out at about 600 unless
you're on 6 GHz so yeah good 700 up look
at that boom it's an APU is I mean this
is like a top chip with integrated
Graphics it's not going to blow your
socks off but it will play games like
rocket League at 1080p pretty decently
or if you're using it as like a little
hdpc it's going to do that totally fine
for comparison we looked at an Asus
zephrus g16 uh with the dedicated GPU
turned off so it's basically the exact
same chip as in here at that point and
and generally it was faster it doesn't
seem like the balance versus performance
mode makes a huge difference um if
anything it's within an FPS or two but
it also is very possible that the g16 is
thermal throttling cuz they like to do
that this thing doesn't seem to I mean
it's it's relatively quiet let's see how
loud it gets this is in the balance
profile right now and cinebench is one
of the situations where you could
actually see a difference between
balanced and performance mode even
though it didn't make much of a
difference in games I mean it's pretty
quiet right now if this was sitting on
my desk next to my
monitor I think it would get annoying if
I wasn't wearing headphones or if I had
open back headphones this would drive me
crazy I mean the exhaust
is like right upwards in your face it
just kind of sounds like a a laptop it's
a quiet laptop here this will give you a
better indication here's performance
mode balance
mode it's way
quieter when you move to non-performance
tests like blender or photoshop a g16 is
a touch faster but we're pretty much in
the same range um so it performance as
expected I don't know if anyone is
looking to buy this thing as a
performance monster but it it would it
would do calculations pretty much as to
your expectations I can't imagine it's
getting that hot oh it's click I should
be trying to score here ah hey thanks
teammate I'm a little disappointed in
the noise levels I mean minis for them
their mini computers are usually pretty
good noise wise but the screen obviously
causes a little bit of ventilation
uh constraints let's look at the temps
here this is in Balance mode for the
reference more like CPU package I mean
it's all over the place as a game but
getting up into
75 and our package power is at like 37
watts and it's this
loud all that's left now is to take it
apart hey I don't know how good it is to
put a magnet near your computer but the
LTT Cable
Management Keyhole thingies that you
usually use for Power Bars
just barely fit in
there it's it's not really in there but
it's in there
enough and now watch
this your webcam can be mounted at a
very convenient
location yeah Jokes Aside you could you
could stick this on the side of your
computer or like if you have a metal
wall or a fridge beside your computer
this is the thing they keep doing minis
for please God make the feet not get
destroyed when you want to take the
computer apart I don't understand this
like there you go great I can take it
apart by just destroying these little
rubber feet because they're sticky
usually you can stick them back on but
like just don't put the screws to take
the computer apart underneath the
freaking
feet hello sir can I get some open
please whoa the ports are on a daughter
board why would they do that how am I
supposed to detach this that's a big
cooling apparatus it's big fan explains
why it's so noisy that's a lot of screws
man I don't know if I'm trying to take
this off right
now damn look at them heat pipes woo
that was Hefty why is this thing so
loud we've got the two sodm slots where
you can put up to 96 gigs of ddr5 memory
you got a little graphine actually thick
graphine
pads what are these crucial 5600 cool
and over here we can see the two M do2s
this is the 2280 it comes with this a
Gen 4 slot and then there's also a 2230
slot if you want to put a second SSD I
am going to take this little board off
because I want to see the back of the
screen you're supposed to take the
cooler off before you do this oh God
yeah there we go look at that if you
need to do this for whatever reason take
the uh little been cable out of here and
take the CPU Cooler off first because
yep oh the camos battery it's on the
back brother I mean they give you a
reset button but if you need to get at
that that's a pain in the and then
there's the Wi-Fi card which also pain
in to get it the screen definitely can
just come out now that those screws are
taken out this screen module has an SD
card slot on it that's weird oh that
ribbon C this ribbon cable is not for
the screen this is for the camera it
says right there well it's a mini
computer with a screen on it it seems to
perform as it should it's a little bit
noisy the screen doesn't act as a
desktop screen if you're hoping for that
it's just those displays or a clock the
webcam is pretty good and it's kind of
expensive this is
$669 Bare Bones that means no SSD and no
Ram it's not cheap if you want it with
32 gigs of RAM a 1 TB SSD and with the
egpu doc you're looking at 8.99 us as of
right
now I mean if you if you want this I
don't think it's the worst thing in the
world um but also you probably don't
need this just buy like a790 or
a890 it's cheaper and probably faster
and less noisy and smaller so thanks for
watching if you like this video maybe
check out the time that I looked at that
minis form that just had a webcam
integrated into it it was strange then
is still a bit strange but that one's
webcam actually still works at the end
of the video